Now that you have a better sense of how to evaluate landing pages.
It's a good idea to look back at our previous lesson about acquisition channels.
Acquisition channels and landing pages go hand in hand.
Imagine yourself in the shoes of a marketer.
If you're making decisions around which marketing channels to use,
you're going to have to think about the landing pages
you will send users to when they come visit your site.
Depending on the channel and your goals,
you may want to pick different landing pages.
Now, it is important to evaluate them together.
So, how did we do that in Google Analytics?
Let's go back to the landing page report for the Google Merchandise Store.
Google Analytics makes it possible to bring in
a secondary dimension when looking at reports.
There are many dimensions to pick from.
We're interested in the traffic source in this case.
Now, Google will show me the traffic by landing page by source.
This extra detail can reveal a few things about
the match between my acquisition channel in the landing page.
Let's take a look at some of the things we can learn from this report.
Remember that in our quiz,
we said that the bounce rates for the landing pages looked good overall.
Well, let's take a look at this.
While things looked good on average,
we have a 69 percent bounce rate on the homepage associated with the YouTube source.
This means that people who come from YouTube and land on the homepage bounce a lot.
That's a problem especially since
YouTube is an important source of traffic for this page.
Now, I know that there is not really something wrong about page
itself as it looks like the people who come from other sources do just fine.
They engage, not too many bands,
and their sessions are along.
So, what is going on here?
This is a clear case of a mismatched expectation.
Let's take a look. We saw before that the traffic to
the merchandise store coming from YouTube is
primarily coming from the About page in YouTube.
There's a link here to merchandise,
and it says that there's a whole store here filled with YouTube goodies.
Well, if I'm a YouTube fan, I'm excited.
But when I click on the link,
I find a store full of Google goodies.
No YouTube brand and stuff here.
So, I move on, disappointed.
It's true that I could have found a YouTube apparel by clicking
on the shop by brand link and then on YouTube,
but you cannot rely on the user taking those steps.
You should always aim to fulfill their expectation immediately.
So in this case,
the landing page should have been the YouTube branded merchandise page,
not the homepage of the store.
You see how combining the landing page report with
the secondary dimensions source can help you to
evaluate whether you're matched the landing pages
well with your acquisition efforts in different channels.
It's an important step to take in evaluating
the engagement of your users from all sources.